# AI and LLM policy

The purpose of this document is to gradually boundaries about the use of LLMs,
in order to avoid licensing conflicts and low effort contributions. We also want
to be transparent about the way we use those tools, and about the way we expect
others to do so when they contribute to this project. Keep in mind that those
tools evolve rapidly, so we might have to frequently update this policy.

## Logos, icons, and other assets

**Using LLMs to generate assets is strictly prohibited.** Our branding should
reflect the purpose of the project, and there is clearly no room for licensing
ambiguities in this case. We also have very strict rules regarding iconography
(see [src/icons/README.md](https://github.com/repath-studio/repath-studio/blob/main/src/icons/README.md)).

## Documentation

**Using LLMs for extensive documentation or even for generating simple
docstrings is strongly discouraged**. Documentation should help clarify things
that are not apparent. In our experience, LLMs tend to do the exact opposite.
They state the obvious and pollute the project with noise. Using them for a
final pass to catch typos and other simple mistakes should be fine.

## Testing

**Using LLMs to write tests is also discouraged.** We prefer adding tests
selectively, instead of blindly try to increase our test coverage. The "why" and
"how" is more important than quantity.

## Core

**Code contributions fully generated by AI tools will be rejected.** The core of
this project is written by hand with minimal AI assistance, and we want to keep
it that way to maintain ownership and control.

**Changes partially assisted by AI tools are allowed with conditions**. They
should ideally be marked by adding an "Assisted-by: MODELS" label at the end of
the pull requests. `MODELS` should be replaced by a comma-separated list of the
utilized models. Using AI to review changes to catch minor errors or fix typos
before submitting a PR does not require notice. You should always review any AI
generated changes, and make sure that they don't introduce any bugs, or reduce
the quality of the code.

**Contributors should always ensure that their work does not violate any
copyright laws.** This also applies to AI generated code. Check the tool’s terms
of use, to make sure you are not using copyrighted sources. You are advised to
use models trained on content with compatible licensing.

Those guidelines depend on various factors, so there is a huge gray area. As a
general rule, if your contribution does not increase your understanding of the
domain, and/or decreases the amount of confidence that you have regarding the
way the app behaves, you should be alarmed.

## Reviews

**We do not use LLMs to review contributions, but we might use various models
from time to time to review the whole project.** The purpose is to find random
issues that we missed (bugs, typos, misleading naming etc). Although LLMs can
produce a lot of false positives, they can also quickly identify problems that
would normally require a very thorough pass to catch them.

## Translations and dev tools

**Those are the areas where we encourage the use LLMs.** Translations make the
project widely accessible, and we don't have the capacity to maintain user
generated translations yet. They are also isolated, so replacing or removing
them won't affect the core product. Using LLMs to update or add new languages
under `src/lang` without further modifications is accepted, but human
intervention is required to make sure that the changes don't break existing
functionality, or do not reduce the quality of existing translations.

The same is also true for our dev tools under `src/build`. They usually contain
throw-away code, since we are mainly interested in the artifacts they produce,
but contributions should always be reviewed and tested, regardless of the way
they were generated.

Since we did not produce those files for the most part, I don't think we are
allowed to license them. Even marking them as public domain requires owning the
intellectual rights. Treating files under `src/lang` and `src/build` as source
available seems to be the safest option for now.

Pull requests fully generated by AI tools should be marked by adding a
"Generated-by: MODELS" label at the end of the pull requests.
